Self-Assembly Monolayer Inspired Stable Artificial Solid Electrolyte Interphase Design for Next-Generation Lithium Metal Batteries
Lithium metal is widely regarded as the “ultimate” anode for energy-dense Li batteries, but its high reactivity and delicate interface make it prone to dendrite formation, limiting its practical use. Inspired by self-assembled monolayers on metal surfaces, we propose a facile yet effective strategy to stabilize Li metal anodes by creating an artificial solid electrolyte interphase (SEI). Our method involves dip-coating Li metal in MPDMS to create an SEI layer that is rich in inorganic components, allowing uniform Li plating/stripping under a low overpotential over 500 cycles in carbonate electrolytes. In comparison, pristine Li metal shows a rapid increase in overpotential after merely 300 cycles, leading to failure soon after. Molecular dynamics simulations demonstrate that this uniform artificial SEI suppresses Li dendrite formation. We further demonstrated its enhanced stability pairing with LiFePO4 and LiNi1–x–yCoxMnyO2 cathodes, highlighting the proposed strategy as a promising solution for practical Li metal batteries.

Nanoscale Confinement Effects on Ionic Conductivity of Solid Polymer Electrolytes: The Interplay between Diffusion and Dissociation
Solid polymer electrolytes (SPEs) are attractive for next-generation lithium metal batteries but still suffer from low ionic conductivity. Nanostructured materials offer design concepts for SPEs with better performance. Using molecular dynamics simulation, we examine SPEs under nanoscale confinement, which has been demonstrated to accelerate the transport of neutral molecules such as water. Our results show that while ion diffusion indeed accelerates by more than 2 orders of magnitude as the channel diameter decreases from 15 to 2 nm, the ionic conductivity does not increase significantly in parallel. Instead, the ionic conductivity shows a nonmonotonic variation, with an optimal value above, but on the same order as, its bulk counterparts. This trend is due to enhanced ion association with decreasing channel size, which reduces the number of effective charge carriers. This effect competes with accelerated ion diffusion, leading to the nonmonotonicity in ion conductivity.

Microphase Separation in Neutral Homopolymer Blends Induced by Salt-Doping
Microphase separation in polymeric systems provides a bottom-up strategy to fabricate nanostructures. Polymers that are reported to undergo microphase separation usually include block copolymers or polyelectrolytes. Neutral homopolymers, which are comparatively easy to synthesize, are thought to be incapable of microphase separation. Here, using a minimal model that accounts for ion solvation, we show that microphase separation is possible in neutral homopolymer blends with sufficient dielectric contrast, upon a tiny amount of salt-doping. The driving force for the microphase separation is the competition between selective ion solvation, which places smaller ions in domains with higher dielectric constant, and the propensity for local charge neutrality to decrease the electrostatic energy. The compromise is an emergent length over which microphase separation occurs and ions are selectively solvated. The factors affecting such competitions are explored, including ion solvation radii, dielectric contrast, and polymer fraction, which point to directions for observing this behavior experimentally. These findings suggest a low-cost and facile alternative to produce microphase separation, which may be exploited in advanced material design and preparation.

Weakening of Solvation-Induced Ordering by Composition Fluctuation in Salt-Doped Block Polymers
The spontaneous ordering of block polymers doped with ions is affected by both selective solvation and long-range Coulombic interaction. The mean-field treatment was recently shown to overestimate the solvation-induced ordering, requiring a large solvation radius to fit experimental phase diagrams, which may be relieved by including composition fluctuations. Treating the composition fluctuations in such systems is challenging because of the need of resolving heterogeneous dielectric profile that couples with the ordering itself. Starting from a minimal model, we develop a Landau–Brazovskiĭ expansion for the free energy of salt-doped block polymer near the ordering transition. It is found that the wavelength for typical composition fluctuations first decreases with salt doping, due to Coulombic interaction, then increases due to ionic solvation. Two mechanisms that weaken the solvation-enhanced ordering are identified: the Brazovskiĭ-type composition fluctuation that stabilizes disordered phase, and the coupling between mismatch in dispersion interaction and the dielectric permittivity through monomeric polarizability.

Light-Powered Directional Nanofluidic Ion Transport in Kirigami-Made Asymmetric Photonic-Ionic Devices
Nacre-mimetic 2D nanofluidic materials with densely packed sub-nanometer-height lamellar channels find widespread applications in water-, energy-, and environment-related aspects by virtue of their scalable fabrication methods and exceptional transport properties. Recently, light-powered nanofluidic ion transport in synthetic materials gained considerable attention for its remote, noninvasive, and active control of the membrane transport property using the energy of light. Toward practical application, a critical challenge is to overcome the dependence on inhomogeneous or site-specific light illumination. Here, asymmetric photonic-ionic devices based on kirigami-tailored graphene oxide paper are fabricated, and directional nanofluidic ion transport properties therein powered by full-area light illumination are demonstrated. The in-plane asymmetry of the graphene oxide paper is essential to the generation of photoelectric driving force under homogeneous illumination. This light-powered ion transport phenomenon is explained based on a modified carrier diffusion model. In asymmetric nanofluidic structures, enhanced recombination of photoexcited charge carriers at the membrane boundary breaks the electric potential balance in the horizontal direction, and thus drives the ion transport in that direction under symmetric illumination. The kirigami-based strategy provides a facile and scalable way to fabricate paper-like photonic-ionic devices with arbitrary shapes, working as fundamental elements for large-scale light-harvesting nanofluidic circuits.

Dendrite Suppression by a Polymer Coating: A Coarse-Grained Molecular Study
A major hurdle to the successful deployment of high-energy-density lithium metal based batteries is dendrite growth during battery cycling, which raises safety and cycle life concerns. Coating the Li metal anode with a soft polymer layer has been previously shown to be effective in suppressing dendrite growth, leading to uniform lithium deposition even at high current densities. A 3D coarse-grained molecular model to study the mechanism of dendrite suppression is presented. It is found that the most effective coatings delay or even prevent dendrites from penetrating the polymer layer during deposition. The optimal deposition can be achieved by jointly tuning the polymer stiffness and relaxation time. Higher polymer dielectric permittivity and coating thickness are also effective, but the deposition rate and, therefore, the charging current density is reduced. These findings provide the basis for rational design of soft polymer coatings for stable lithium deposition.

Chromatic neuronal jamming in a primitive brain
Jamming models developed in inanimate matter have been widely used to describe cell packing in tissues1,2,3,4,5,6,7, but predominantly neglect cell diversity, despite its prevalence in biology. Most tissues, animal brains in particular, comprise a mix of many cell types, with mounting evidence suggesting that neurons can recognize their respective types as they organize in space8,9,10,11. How cell diversity revises the current jamming paradigm is unknown. Here, in the brain of the flatworm planarian Schmidtea mediterranea, which exhibits remarkable tissue plasticity within a simple, quantifiable nervous system12,13,14,15,16, we identify a distinct packing state, ‘chromatic’ jamming. Combining experiments with computational modelling, we show that neurons of distinct types form independent percolating networks barring any physical contact. This jammed state emerges as cell packing configurations become constrained by cell type-specific interactions and therefore may extend to describe cell packing in similarly complex tissues composed of multiple cell types.

Photoinduced Directional Proton Transport through Printed Asymmetric Graphene Oxide Superstructures: A New Driving Mechanism under Full-Area Light Illumination
2D-material-based membranes with densely packed sub-nanometer-height fluidic channels show exceptional transport properties, and have attracted broad research interest for energy-, environment-, and healthcare-related applications. Recently, light-controlled active transport of ionic species in abiotic materials have received renewed attention. However, its dependence on inhomogeneous or site-specific illumination is a challenge for scalable application. Here, directional proton transport through printed asymmetric graphene oxide superstructures (GOSs) is demonstrated under full-area illumination. The GOSs are composed of partially stacked graphene oxide multilayers formed by a two-step direct ink writing process. The direction of the photoinduced proton current is determined by the position of top graphene oxide multilayers, which functions as a photogate to modulate the horizontal ion transport through the beneath lamellar nanochannels. This transport phenomenon unveils a new driving mechanism that, in asymmetric nanofluidic structures, the decay of local light intensity in depth direction breaks the balance of electric potential distribution in horizontal direction, and thus generates a photoelectric driving force for ion transport. Following this mechanism, the GOSs are developed into photonic ion transistors with three different gating modes. The asymmetrically printed photonic-ionic devices provide fundamental elements for light-harvesting nanofluidic circuits, and may find applications for artificial photosynthesis and artificial electric organs.

Photo-induced ultrafast active ion transport through graphene oxide membranes
Layered graphene oxide membranes (GOM) with densely packed sub-nanometer-wide lamellar channels show exceptional ionic and molecular transport properties. Mass and charge transport in existing materials follows their concentration gradient, whereas attaining anti-gradient transport, also called active transport, remains a great challenge. Here, we demonstrate a coupled photon-electron-ion transport phenomenon through the GOM. Upon asymmetric light illumination, cations are able to move thermodynamically uphill over a broad range of concentrations, at rates much faster than that via simple diffusion. We propose, as a plausible mechanism, that light irradiation reduces the local electric potential on the GOM following a carrier diffusion mechanism. When the illumination is applied to an off-center position, an electric potential difference is built that can drive the transport of ionic species. We further develop photonic ion switches, photonic ion diodes, and photonic ion transistors as the fundamental elements for active ion sieving and artificial photosynthesis on synthetic nanofluidic circuits.

Geometric structure-guided photo-driven ion current through asymmetric graphene oxide membranes
It has been demonstrated previously that ion transport can be generated in a graphene oxide membrane (GOM) when light is illuminated on an off-centre position on it, which triggers a transmembrane potential. We show in this work that rational design of the GOM geometry obviates the necessity of partial illumination. Upon full-area light illumination, a net cationic flow through a geometry-asymmetric GOM is generated from the thin side toward the thick side. The origin of the photo-responsiveness of the asymmetric GOM is the synergistic effect of light decay with depth in the GOM and the disparate diffusion rates of charge carriers in the GOM, i.e., electrons and holes. The geometry modulation of the GOM provides a facile and straightforward way to photo-induce ion transport.

An Atomistic Simulation Study on POC/PIM Mixed-Matrix Membranes for Gas Separation
Although high flux membranes are indispensable to membrane-based gas separation technologies, enhancing membrane permeability proves to be difficult due to the trade-off between permeability and gas selectivity. Mixed-matrix membrane (MMM) is a promising route to break this limitation. Nevertheless, in sharp contrast to a myriad of experimental studies, only a few simulation studies on MMMs are available. In this work, we describe a molecular dynamics simulation scheme to model MMMs, including membrane construction through cyclic annealing and gas permeation simulation through a constant pressure difference setup. MMMs based on a typical porous organic cage (CC3) and a typical polymer of intrinsic microporosity (PIM-1) are probed. It is shown that discrete CC3 molecules mixed in PIM-1 afford no permeability enhancement, as the introduction of discrete CC3 changes neither the packing structure nor the gas movement mechanism. The presence of CC3 crystals in MMMs can promote gas permeability with a minor selectivity compromise by virtue of high gas diffusivities in CC3 crystals and high gas adsorption in PIM-1. In addition, perturbed packing of PIM-1 chains near an extremely flat CC3 surface gives rise to modestly large pores in the interface, which favors gas permeation. These understandings obtained from molecular models are useful for the rational design of advanced mixed-matrix membranes.

Amorphous Porous Organic Cage Membranes for Water Desalination
Emerged as a new class of nanoporous materials, porous organic cages (POCs) possess salient features of solvent processability and water stability; thus, they are envisioned as promising membrane materials for water desalination. In this study, we propose a simulation protocol to construct atomic models of amorphous POC membranes and examine their desalination performance. Five membranes (AC1, AC2, AC3, AC16, and AC17) with similar cage structure but different periphery groups are considered. All the five membranes exhibit 100% salt rejection. In contrast to crystalline CC1 membrane, which is impermeable to water, AC1 has a water permeability Pw of 3.6 × 10–8 kg·m/(m2·h·bar). With increasing interconnected pores in AC2, AC3, AC16, and AC17, Pw increases. Due to the existence of hydroxyl groups in CC17 cages, AC17 exhibits the highest Pw of 3.17 × 10–7 kg·m/(m2·h·bar), which is higher than in commercial reverse osmosis membranes. Significantly, Pw is found to enhance in mixed AC3/AC17 and AC16/AC17 membranes with up to one-fold enhancement. The enhanced Pw is attributed to the counterbalance between water sorption and diffusion. This simulation study provides the bottom-up insights into the dynamics and structure of water in amorphous POC membranes, highlights their potential use for water desalination, and suggests a unique strategy to enhance desalination performance by tuning the composition of mixed POC membranes.

Dipeptides Embedded in a Lipid Bilayer Membrane as Synthetic Water Channels
Water channels are essential to life sciences and many biological processes. We report a molecular simulation study on dipeptides embedded in a lipid (dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine) membrane as synthetic water channels. Five dipeptides are examined including FF, FL, LF, and LL (with hydrophilic channels) and AV (with hydrophobic channel). It is found that AV is unstable in the lipid membrane due to incompatible interaction between the hydrophilic external surface of AV and the hydrophobic lipid tails; whereas FF, FL, LF, and LL with hydrophobic external surface exhibit good stability. In the four hydrophilic channels FF, FL, LF, and LL, water chains are formed; the number of chains ranges from multiple, two to one depending on channel diameter; moreover, water undergoes single-file diffusion and the mobility is enhanced with increasing channel diameter. The permeation rate of water in the FF channel is 9.20/ns, about three times that in aquaporin; however, the rate in FL, LF, and LL is much slower. Intriguingly, the rate can be tuned by a lateral stress/strain on the lipid membrane. The simulation study provides fundamental understanding on the stability of dipeptide channels embedded in a lipid membrane, quantitatively characterizing water structure, dynamics, and permeation in the channels. These microscopic insights are useful for the development of new water channels.

Porous organic cage membranes for water desalination: a simulation exploration†
Porous organic cages (POCs) have emerged as a new class of porous materials and received considerable interest for their potential applications. Herein we report the first proof-of-concept simulation study on POC membranes for water desalination. Five [4+6] POCs (CC1, CC2, CC3, CC16, and CC17) are considered with similar crystal structures, but different periphery groups and pore morphologies. CC1 is found to be impermeable to water due to disconnected pores. With an interconnected tetrahedral pore network, CC3 and CC16 have an intermediate water permeability of 1–5 × 10−7 kg m (m2 h bar)−1. CC2 and CC17 contain straight pores and a widely open pore network, respectively, thus exhibit a high water permeability of 2–3 × 10−6 kg m (m2 h bar)−1; nevertheless, salt rejection in CC17 is only 89%. Among the five POC membranes, CC2 is the best for water desalination with performance superior to other membranes reported in the literature. The membrane flexibility is revealed to have a weak effect on water permeation. To provide further microscopic understanding, the permeation duration, diffusion and hydrogen bonding of water in the POC membranes are quantitatively analyzed. From this simulation study, the key factors governing water permeation in the POC membranes are unraveled and CC2 is identified to be an interesting candidate for water desalination.

A theoretical study on the morphological phase diagram of supported lipid bilayers
Supported lipid bilayers (SLBs) have been widely used in drug delivery, biosensors and biomimetic membranes. The microscopic mechanism of SLB formation and stability depends on a number of factors underlying solvent-mediated lipid–lipid and lipid–substrate interactions. Whereas recent years have witnessed remarkable progress in understanding the kinetics of SLB formation, relatively little is known about the lipid phase behavior controlling the SLB stability under diverse solution conditions. In this work, we examine the structure of SLBs using classical density functional theory (CDFT) in the context of a coarse-grained model that accounts for ion-explicit electrostatic interactions, surface hydrophobicity, as well as the molecular characteristics of the lipid tails. A morphological phase diagram is constructed in terms of various intrinsic properties of lipid molecules (such as the lipid tail length, size and charge of the lipid head segments), substrate conditions (such as the surface charge density and hydrophobicity), and solution parameters (such as the ion concentration and ion type). The morphological phase diagram provides useful insights into the rational design and broader application of SLB membranes as different types of nano-devices.

Spreading of a Unilamellar Liposome on Charged Substrates: A Coarse-Grained Molecular Simulation
Supported lipid bilayers (SLBs) are able to accommodate membrane proteins useful for diverse biomimetic applications. Although liposome spreading represents a common procedure for preparation of SLBs, the underlying mechanism is not yet fully understood, particularly from a molecular perspective. The present study examines the effects of the substrate charge on unilamellar liposome spreading on the basis of molecular dynamics simulations for a coarse-grained model of the solvent and lipid molecules. Liposome transformation into a lipid bilayer of different microscopic structures suggests three types of kinetic pathways depending on the substrate charge density, that is, top-receding, parachute, and parachute with wormholes. Each pathway leads to a unique distribution of the lipid molecules and thereby distinctive properties of SLBs. An increase of the substrate charge density results in a magnified asymmetry of the SLBs in terms of the ratio of charged lipids, parallel surface movements, and the distribution of lipid molecules. While the lipid mobility in the proximal layer is strongly correlated with the substrate potential, the dynamics of lipid molecules in the distal monolayer is similar to that of a freestanding lipid bilayer. For liposome spreading on a highly charged surface, wormhole formation promotes lipid exchange between the SLB monolayers thus reduces the asymmetry on the number density of lipid molecules, the lipid order parameter, and the monolayer thickness. The simulation results reveal the important regulatory role of electrostatic interactions on liposome spreading and the properties of SLBs.

Molecular dynamics for the charging behavior of nanostructured electric double layer capacitors containing room temperature ionic liquids
The charging kinetics of electric double layers (EDLs) is closely related to the performance of a wide variety of nanostructured devices including supercapacitors, electro-actuators, and electrolyte-gated transistors. While room temperature ionic liquids (RTIL) are often used as the charge carrier in these new applications, the theoretical analyses are mostly based on conventional electrokinetic theories suitable for macroscopic electrochemical phenomena in aqueous solutions. In this work, we study the charging behavior of RTIL-EDLs using a coarse-grained molecular model and constant-potential molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. In stark contrast to the predictions of conventional theories, the MD results show oscillatory variations of ionic distributions and electrochemical properties in response to the separation between electrodes. The rate of EDL charging exhibits non-monotonic behavior revealing strong electrostatic correlations in RTIL under confinement.

Density functional theory study of the capacitance of single file ions in a narrow cylinder
The differential capacitance of a model organic electrolyte in a cylindrical pore that is so narrow that the ions can form only a single file is studied by means of density functional theory (DFT). Kornyshev (2013), has studied this system and found the differential capacitance to have only a double hump shape (the so-called camel shape) whereas other geometries show this behavior only at low ionic concentrations that are typical for aqueous electrolytes. However, his calculation is rather approximate. In this DFT study we find that the double hump shape occurs only at low ionic concentrations. At high concentrations, the capacitance has only a single hump. Kornyshev considers a metallic cylinder and approximately includes the contributions of electrostatic images. Electrostatic images are not easily incorporated into DFT. As a result, images are not considered in this study and the question of whether Kornyshev’s result is due to his approximations or images cannot be answered. Simulations to answer this question are planned.

A molecular theory for optimal blue energy extraction by electrical double layer expansion†
Electrical double layer expansion (CDLE) has been proposed as a promising alternative to reverse electrodialysis (RED) and pressure retarded osmosis (PRO) processes for extracting osmotic power generated by the salinity difference between freshwater and seawater. The performance of the CDLE process is sensitive to the configuration of porous electrodes and operation parameters for ion extraction and release cycles. In this work, we use a classical density functional theory (CDFT) to examine how the electrode pore size and charging/discharging potentials influence the thermodynamic efficiency of the CDLE cycle. The existence of an optimal charging potential that maximizes the energy output for a given pore configuration is predicted, which varies substantially with the pore size, especially when it is smaller than 2 nm. The thermodynamic efficiency is maximized when the electrode has a pore size about twice the ion diameter.

Surface tension effects on the phase transition of a DPPC bilayer with and without protein: a molecular dynamics simulation†
While the surface tension of a cell membrane, or a plasma membrane, regulates cell functions, little is known about its effect on the conformational changes of the lipid bilayer and hence the resulting changes in the cell membrane. To obtain some insights into the phase transition of the lipid bilayer as a function of surface tension, we used a 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DPPC) bilayer as a model lipid bilayer and aquaporin (AqpZ), a transmembrane channel protein for water, as a model embedded protein. A coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulation was applied to illustrate the phase transition behavior of the pure DPPC bilayer and aquaporin-embedded DPPC bilayer under different surface tensions. It was shown that an increased surface tension reduced the phase transition temperature of the DPPC bilayer. As for the DPPC bilayer in gel form, no significant changes occurred in the structure of the bilayer in response to the surface tension. Once in a liquid crystal state, both the structure and properties of the DPPC bilayer, such as area per lipid, lipid order parameters, bilayer thickness and lateral diffusion coefficients, were responsive to the magnitude of surface tension in a linear way. The presence of aquaporin attenuated the compact alignment of the lipid bilayer, hindered the parallel movement, and thus made the DPPC bilayer less sensitive to the surface tension.

Multiscale simulation of surfactant–aquaporin complex formation and water permeability†
Multiscale simulation has been conducted for the formation of a surfactant–protein complex that uses sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), a negatively charged surfactant, and aquaporin Z (AqpZ), a membrane protein that facilitates water transport across lipid membranes. A detailed analysis of the molecular driving forces of the self-assembly at different pH values reveals distinctive contributions of electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions to the complex structure and formation kinetics. The electrostatic interactions become more significant at low pH and are responsible for the formation of larger complexes. A comparison of the protein conformation in the SDS complex with that in the lipid bilayer of palmitoyloleoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine (POPE) shows that the SDS molecules have only marginal effects on AqpZ conformation including the water channel structure. The simulation indicates that AqpZ preserves its secondary structures after being bound with SDS molecules, while the arrangement of the helical structures leads to a coiled-coil to single helix transition as suggested by experiments. AqpZ may lose water permeability either due to the blockage of the water channel by individual SDS molecules or due to the attachment of micelle-like structures at the hydrophilic ends of the water pore. Reconstitution of the AqpZ complex into a POPE bilayer shows that the membrane protein regains its activity after the complete removal of SDS molecules from the protein pores. The molecular insights gained from multiscale simulation will be helpful for future development of AqpZ-embedded membranes.

Molecular Theory for Electrokinetic Transport in pH-Regulated Nanochannels
Ion transport through nanochannels depends on various external driving forces as well as the structural and hydrodynamic inhomogeneity of the confined fluid inside of the pore. Conventional models of electrokinetic transport neglect the discrete nature of ionic species and electrostatic correlations important at the boundary and often lead to inconsistent predictions of the surface potential and the surface charge density. Here, we demonstrate that the electrokinetic phenomena can be successfully described by the classical density functional theory in conjunction with the Navier–Stokes equation for the fluid flow. The new theoretical procedure predicts ion conductivity in various pH-regulated nanochannels under different driving forces, in excellent agreement with experimental data.


