Upon graduating from high school, I knew a few things: 1.) The economy, according to the political pundits squabbling on TV, consisted of bulls, bears, and the current state of the DOW 2.) Blink by Malcolm Gladwell had fostered my fascination with psychology and human decision making, but I did not want to be a therapist 3.) I had always had an aptitude for math, but I couldn’t picture what I could do with a degree in math. Sometimes I wonder how much easier it could have been if I had just known an economist or if my school had offered any economics courses. Since graduating from college, I now know a few more things: 1.) Economics combines all aspects of psychology and math that I love 2.) Now that I’ve found economics, I will never stop learning 3.) There is so much value in economic research and I want to contribute both by finding new methods and channels for engaging readers with the results and by wherever possible sharing economics with others. In hindsight, it’s clear to me that economics is the discipline for me, but due to a lack of exposure, I nearly missed out. It is my responsibility now and throughout the rest of my career to reach and inspire the future generations of economists.
Through the Economics Association (EAM), I consistently engaged with the economics community on campus. I recruited and trained 6 of my peers to serve as tutors and lead tutoring sessions for over 500 students in the introductory economics courses during my time as the Director of Tutoring with EAM. Then as Vice President I continued to tutor and planned several career exploration events with recruiters and previous graduates from Maryland. I’m most proud of our Maryland Day event during which I taught kids and adults alike about the power of risk aversion in a candy coin toss lottery. This event highlights the expanded engagement that I want to continue to foster as a research economist.
My involvement on campus continued with the Promoting Achievement and Diversity in Economics Program (PADE) run by Dr. Jessica Goldberg. The program was started to guide and support students from groups underrepresented in economics. I have been fortunate to be find ways to benefit and give back to the program. For me, the meetings with the graduate student mentor to discuss economic papers enhanced with my ability to digest complex information. And for others, I was able to assist with tutoring for those in the program who struggled and now that I have graduated, I have been able to provide career guidance for program participants and other economics students who are interested in risk management and mortgage finance.
Previous Research: The Act of Settlement of 1701 included a provision that attempted to reduce the influence of monarchs on Judges’ decisions by giving parliament the sole right to remove judges. This Act is widely regarded as the foundation of the tenure that allows for judicial independence today. However, the Act did not apply to all judges during the 17th and 18th centuries, thus allowing measurement of the effect of judicial tenure on judicial performance. As Dr. Murrell’s research assistant, this project allowed me to gain an understanding of the research process from start to finish, the challenges associated with getting useful data, and the creativity that sometimes must be employed to fill in the gaps. I collected biographical data on judges which proved to be a much harder task than I expected. Common names, misspellings, difficult to read handwritten documents, and a lack of documentation all made the process a challenge. I was able to identify patterns in missing birth and death data, and propose imputations based on documentation of other life events that while likely incorrect, would be close to the actual date and allow for greater data usage. Through this research I also learned the importance of documenting your work both for replicability and future projects, which was especially important given the number of resources cross-referenced. 
The “double-trigger” theory of mortgage default states that negative equity combined with a negative income shock, such as job loss, are an impetus for default.  However, even at Fannie Mae we often do not have monthly borrower level employment data. When reviewing the current practices in a sample of single-family models, I found that unemployment enters through aggregate unemployment metrics at varying levels of granularity. This poses an interesting question: can aggregate unemployment be a proxy for individual employment status? To answer this, I first turned to a paper by Gyourko and Tracy. According to their research, individual unemployment is an important risk factor, but aggregate metrics are a poor proxy leading to under estimation of unemployment risk (due to attenuation bias). Testing alternative specifications of several internal default models seems to confirm these findings, particularly in complex models that already contain a variety of additional macroeconomic indicators. Interestingly, for the loan-level prepayment models that I tested, I found slight out of sample performance increases when adding in unemployment rates with further testing planned. This research has helped me to 
Intellectual Merit:
In the spring of 2014, I graduated with two degrees, a Bachelor of Science in Economics and a Bachelor of Art in Studio Art. While it might be hard to believe, these two topics are much closer related than they seem on the surface. Art and economics are both fundamentally invested in understanding people and how they make decisions --which is what drew me in to both. My first introduction to research was on a capstone project for my honors college. I set out to understand the human experience of beauty, and I pursued it through a survey focused on pinpointing individual feature characteristics that were deemed attractive. I designed and worked the survey, and I performed the analysis at the end. I also created a poster and presented it at an on campus undergraduate research fair. The main things that I learned from this experience are the importance of a sound survey methodology, a representative sample for the population you wish to extrapolate to, and the power of econometrics. This project is what began my interest in research, but it also sparked an interest in design theory. Direct from the research, I discovered a lot about the way people experience aesthetic beauty, which leads to lessons learned in design for nearly every aspect of our lives, and I tried to incorporate those lessons into my presentation. I'm still fascinated with understanding people, but I know now that in order to engage a broader audience with my material, it must be aesthetically appealing. Which might not always be a straightforward concept. I have also been a research assistant twice. The first occasion was for a graduate student who was doing research around the impact of pressure from foreign students applying on native student's chances of admission at Ivy League Institutions. My role was in data collection and cleaning for SAT information. I was also able to provide valuable insight--the graduate student was a Chinese student who was mostly unfamiliar with the differences in applying to schools in the united states. I was able to help explain why the data was sparse in the Midwest and suggest the addition of ACT data in order to fill the gap. Given the prevalence of the ACT in midwestern states. My second research assistant position was for Dr. Peter Murrell, a profession in the economics department at UMD. His research was focused around the impact of judge's rulings on the evolution of parliamentary vocabulary. This position was more of a challenge because of the historical data. I collected birth and death dates for judges in England between 1500 and 1800. The data was a challenge because some of it was scraped from original documents incorrectly and matching the correct judge to the correct lineage through the courts was a challenge, especially as some father son pairs were both judges with the same names. His research, recently published, was able to show that a decision made by a judge could travel through x number of years and have x impact. This experience really taught me about the importance of clean data, and the pitfalls of not being careful. It was also my first opportunity to experience an in-depth research project from nearly start to finish, with a rigorous methodology. My most recent research has been in my position at Fannie Mae and in my free time. I am working on gathering a historical view of the recessions over the last 75 years. I want to understand the complex relationships between various macroeconomic drivers and how they can be used to better understand our economy. For example, in the most recent recession in 2008, we saw a spike in home prices, and then a rapid decline as unemployment rose. Interestingly, for previous recessions such as the 1957 recession, home prices barely changed, or only slightly decreased. With a broader picture of the overall impacts of these drivers on the economy, one can begin to form a narrative of how they may be causal or simply a piece of the puzzle. The only other thing I can think to talk about is my exploration with neural networks. I think they are fascinating and can provide boosts in performance in areas we typically haven't done much work in. I'm interested in using it in the pre-processing phase to label mislabeled and unlabeled data.
Broader Impacts:
Broader Impacts: During my undergraduate career, I was very involved with the Economics Association at Maryland (EAM. During my sophomore year, I was named Director of Tutoring, and in that role, I recruited 6 of my peers to serve as tutors and lead tutoring sessions for over 500 students in the introductory micro and macro economics courses. I then served as the Vice President and continued to be a tutor under the new director of tutoring for the rest of my time at Maryland. As vice president, I was able to be much more involved with the student outreach. I planned multiple career exploration events with recruiters and previous graduates from Maryland designed to help undergraduate students to figure out their post-graduation options. The most fulfilling event that I was able to plan was our Maryland Day booth. During Maryland day, the university opens its doors to the local communities to celebrate Maryland and show off all the work being done by the groups on campus. As the face of the Economics Department, I taught kids and adults alike about the power of risk aversion in a candy coin toss lottery. It was always fun and exciting to see people engage with the material and show that economics can be applied to nearly everything. Throughout my involvement with the Economics Association, I discovered the Promoting Achievement and Diversity in Economics fellowship (PADE), run by Dr. Jessica Goldberg. The fellowship is designed to help students from groups underrepresented in Economics to succeed in their classes and possibly pursue a career in Economics. In this fellowship I had the opportunity to learn more about the research around Economics, built confidence in my graduate plans, and help my peers also in the program. In our weekly meetings with the grad student mentor, we studied for classes, worked on projects and applications, and discussed economic research papers. It was a great chance to engage in mutual peer mentoring and to build a support network that continues to this day. Since graduating, I have continued my involvement with helping my local community, although now that community is Washington, DC. I am on the board of the Young Professional’s Employee Resource Group at Fannie Mae and in this role, I have planned several volunteer events (SERVE Events) for our 250 + members. We have had several events making snack bags for Martha’s table and toiletry kits for Friendship Place, two nonprofits focused providing support to those less fortunate. I have also participated in other SERVE events including making blankets and emergency kits for those impacted by natural disaster, making and serving holiday meals to the homeless, and I am signed up for the November trip to Puerto Rico to rebuild homes impacted by hurricane Maria.
