Drafting Your NSF GFRP Graduate Research Plan Statement ESSAY PROMPT: Present an original research topic that you would like to pursue in graduate school. Describe the research idea, your general approach, as well as any unique resources that may be needed for accomplishing the research goal (i.e., access to national facilities or collections, collaborations, overseas work, etc.) You may choose to include important literature citations. Address the potential of the research to advance knowledge and understanding within science as well as the potential for broader impacts on society. The research discussed must be in an eligible field: https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2018/nsf18573/nsf18573.htm#toc GENERAL ADVICE: The most important things you can do to write an effective Graduate Research Plan Statement are 1) to develop your research topic for the statement in conversation with your mentor(s), 2) to begin planning and drafting early – writing during the summer is ideal, and 3) to have your statement reviewed by a variety of people early enough to permit constructive advice.  FORMATTING: Strictly follow the formatting instructions regarding page limits, font type and size, margins, and line spacing in your statements. Failure to follow the instructions will result in your application being returned without review – this happens to UMD applicants every year. 
TOPIC SELECTION FOR SENIORS/RECENT ALUMNI NOT IN GRAD SCHOOL: Generally, proposals should build on your current or most recent research, extending and developing it in a promising future direction. This will ensure you write about a topic you understand strongly. If your most recent research is not in your planned graduate field, consult with your mentor(s) and with the National Scholarships Office early on how to proceed. Developing a completely new project idea is not necessary and is much harder to do. TOPIC SELECTION FOR FIRST YEAR GRAD STUDENTS: You have two choices: following the advice above is fine, but take the opportunity to explicitly tailor your proposed work to your new graduate program resources and environment. Alternately, you can work early in the summer with your prospective advisors at your grad school to develop proposal that reflects work you may/will actually engage in your first year. 
TOPIC SELECTION FOR SECOND YEAR GRAD STUDENTS: You should develop a proposal that reflects as closely as possible the graduate-level research you plan to or are already engaged in as a grad student, ideally work that you and your advisor (in their letter) can say will develop into your eventual thesis. 
ESSAY ORGANIZATION AND HEADINGS: Your essay must be clearly and logically organized, using headings and formatting judiciously to guide the reader through your essay’s content. You must also explicitly call attention to information in your essay that directly addresses the Intellectual Merit and Broader Impacts criteria. The suggested outline below illustrates this. Important questions to ask yourself before writing the statement: 
What issues in the scientific community are you most passionate [and knowledgeable] about? Do you possess the technical knowledge and skills necessary for conducting this work, or will you have sufficient mentoring and training to complete the study? Is this plan feasible for the allotted time and institutional resources? How will your research contribute to the "big picture" outside the academic context? How does your proposed research address the Intellectual Merit and Broader Impacts criteria? 
NSF GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP GRANTS 

 
 
Suggested Outline for NSF GRFP Graduate Research Plan Essay: 1. Background and Significance: Provide your readers with concise information to place your project in the context of current work in the field. Your opening paragraph should be clear and accessible to a wellinformed reader in your field (e.g. physics or astronomy) who is not an expert in your specifc area of work. A second paragraph can introduce your particular project, again, in broadly accessible terms. Clearly explain why this work would advance knowledge and understanding (if theoretical), or how it may improve performance and effectiveness (if applied) in your field. Aim to end with a succinct statement of your specific objective. Two concise paragraphs. 2.  Hypothesis or Research Question(s): If research in your field customarily involves formulation of a hypothesis or of research questions, be sure that these are clearly stated. One concise paragraph. 3. Methodology: You should describe in detail and rigorously the specific methods, tools, and approaches you will use to gather and analyze the data required to achieve your research objectives. You can include graphs and images showing your current results/data. Two substantial paragraphs. 4. Resources: You should demonstrate a clear understanding any resources necessary to carry out your proposed research. Seniors and recent alumni not yet in grad school do not need to tailor this to your preferred grad school. First and second year grad applicants should demonstrate the availability of these resources at your current institution. One concise paragraph. 4. Intellectual Merit: Clearly discuss how your project advances knowledge in your field, highlighting new contributions in knowledge (and methods if applicable), possibly also explaining how your findings would be of use to researchers in other fields. One concise paragraph. 6. Broader Impacts: Clearly discuss how your research will benefit society, highlighting specific technological applications or economic impacts that could result from your work, or aspects of the work that would be of public interest. One concise paragraph. 5. Citations: Use discipline-specific formatting conventions to provide complete citations for works of high relevance to your proposed research. Most essays have from 4 to 8 citations. WRITING ADVICE: How you write and organize your essay is as important as what you write. Follow these tips to ensure your presentation is as persuasive as your content: 1. Write in a highly informed way that demonstrates your understanding of your field, using technical and other relevant terminology or equations appropriately, while avoiding jargon (in the sense of specialized usages accessible only to people working in a narrow area of your field). 2.  Use headings in bold face type to guide your reader through the parts of your statement – the headings used in the outline above are a good model, with any necessary modifications to adapt to the nature of your work/field. 3. Do not use bold type, underlining or italics to highlight what you consider to be important words, phrases, or sentences sprinkled throughout your essay. Readers always find this distracting and unhelpful. 4. It is a good tactic to draft your essay without too much concern for length initially. The final limit is 2 pages, but your first drafts can be longer. The most important thing is to write what is necessary, then cut back later to meet the limit. Give yourself up to 3 pages (no more) for your early drafts. 
