Drafting Your NSF GFRP Personal, Relevant Background, and Future goals Statement 
ESSAY PROMPT: Please outline your educational and professional development plans and career goals. How do you envision graduate school preparing you for a career that allows you to contribute to expanding scientific understanding as well as broadly benefit society?  
Describe your personal, educational and/or professional experiences that motivate your decision to pursue advanced study in science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM). Include specific examples of any research and/or professional activities in which you have participated. Present a concise description of the activities, highlight the results and discuss how these activities have prepared you to seek a graduate degree. Specify your role in the activity including the extent to which you worked independently and/or as part of a team. Describe the contributions of your activity to advancing knowledge in STEM fields as well as the potential for broader societal impacts (See Solicitation, Section VI, for more information about Broader Impacts). 
NSF Fellows are expected to become globally engaged knowledge experts and leaders who can contribute significantly to research, education, and innovations in science and engineering. The purpose of this statement is to demonstrate your potential to satisfy this requirement. Your ideas and examples do not have to be confined necessarily to the discipline that you have chosen to pursue. 
GENERAL ADVICE: The most important things you can do to write an effective Personal Statement are 1) to begin planning and drafting early – writing during the summer is ideal, and 2) to have your statement reviewed by a variety of people early enough to permit constructive advice. The National  
FORMATTING: Follow the formatting instructions regarding page limits, font type and size, margins, and line spacing in your statements. Failure to follow the instructions will result in your application being returned without review – this happens to UMD applicants every year. 
ESSAY ORGANIZATION AND HEADINGS: Your essay must be clearly and logically organized, using headings and formatting judiciously to guide the reader through your essay’s content. You must also explicitly call attention to information in your essay that directly addresses the Intellectual Merit and Broader Impacts criteria. The suggested outline below illustrates this. 
Important questions to ask yourself before writing the statement: 
Why are you fascinated by your research area? What personal and individual strengths do you have that make you a qualified applicant? What are all of your applicable educational and research experiences? For each research experience, what were the key questions, methodology, findings, and conclusions? Did you work in a team and/or independently? How did you assist in the analysis of results? What examples of leadership skills and unique characteristics do you bring to your chosen field? How did your research and other relevant activities address the Intellectual Merit and Broader Impacts criteria? 
Suggested Outline for NSF GRFP Graduate Research Plan Essay: The outline below is helpful in getting most writers started. Keep in mind that your particular story may eventually require a different order, or different elements than are suggested here, such as a paragraph about special challenges or circumstances relevant to your path and goals. 1. Scientific Motivation: The goal of your opening paragraph is to help readers understand how you became motivated to pursue your area of focus, and to introduce that area of focus quite specifically. Your approach may be 
NSF GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP GRANTS 

 
 
 biographical, but should lead the reader to your current research interests. Aim to conclude with a concise, specific statement of your actual or planned graduate study status and plans. One paragraph. 2.  Educational Background: Seniors/recent alumni: Provide readers with a description of key, relevant features of your undergraduate educational preparation for your proposed graduate work, addressing coursework and research in broad strokes. Grad students: Begin by describing key features of your current graduate coursework/research in broad strokes, then describe your prior undergraduate preparation as above. Highlight the skills and experiences most relevant to your future goals, and any especially notable research accomplishments. Two concise paragraphs. 3. Goals for Graduate Study: Concisely and specifically describe your goals for graduate study; it is particularly helpful to identify specific skills or knowledge-areas you know you need to develop to succeed in your planned research career. Seniors/recent alumni should note two preferred grad programs, giving substantive reasons for each; current grad students should describe the suitability of their school’s people/resources/research programs for their intended work. 3. Previous Research: Provide a concise, abstract-length description of each of your research experiences. Clearly describe the labs area of work, your role, skills/techniques you gained/applied, how you worked with others. Explicitly address the intellectual merit and broader impacts of each research experience. Explicitly mention any presentations/publications that resulted – I suggest consistently using italics for every sentence describing communication of research. For graduate students I recommend starting with you current/most recent research and working backward in time. Several Paragraphs – this should be the longest section of your essay. 4. Relevant Professional Experiences: Discuss experiences such as conference attendance, international STEM experiences, activities/leadership in campus STEM organizations, relevant work experiences. Be sure to note any broader impacts of these experiences. One concise paragraph. 4. Intellectual Merit: Clearly discuss how your project advances knowledge in your field, highlighting new contributions in knowledge (and methods if applicable), possibly also explaining how your findings would be of use to researchers in other fields. One concise paragraph. 6. Broader Impacts: Clearly discuss each experience that has enabled you to work with others in ways that enhanced their opportunities and goals, and have prepared you for a career mentoring, educating, or informing others. Conclude with a brief “Future Broader Impacts” paragraph describing specific plans for personal broader impacts engagement at your future/new graduate institution. Several very concise paragraphs. 5. Future Scientific Goals: The best conclusions are brief and substantive. Seniors/recent alumni can their excitement about specific future research paths and career plans. Current grad students can describe specific ways NSF support may enable them to enhance their graduate research objectives beyond what they would otherwise accomplish. Second year grad students can describe early thoughts about post-doctoral research directions. WRITING ADVICE: How you write and organize your essay is as important as what you write. Follow these tips to ensure your presentation is as persuasive as your content: 
1. The most common failing in personal statement writing is writing that is too general or abstract to be helpful to your readers. If any applicant can write a sentence or paragraph you’ve written, it is not helping you. 2.  Use headings in bold face type to guide your reader through the parts of your statement, as in the outline above. 3. Do not use bold type, underlining or italics to highlight what you consider to be important words, phrases, or sentences sprinkled throughout your essay. Readers always find this distracting and unhelpful. INSTEAD, use these tools systematically to guide readers through the content of your essay, as suggested above. 4. It is a good tactic to draft your essay without too much concern for length initially. The final limit is 3 pages, but your first drafts can be longer. The most important thing is to write what is necessary, then cut back later to meet the limit. Give yourself 4 pages for your early drafts. 
