I have had the pleasure of working with Erica as her manager in the Model Risk Management department at Fannie Mae for over a year now. Erica impresses me as a young professional who has an ambitious dream for her career: being a top economist who contributes to the social welfare - a dream bigger than personal interest. More importantly, she has a clear plan to march towards her dream and has been persistently taking actions to achieve her plan. Her quantitative competence, her creativity and curiosity for new things, and her ability to influence positive change beyond her immediate team all thoroughly equip her for pursuing her career goal. I believe that being awarded the NSF’s GRFP will be a milestone of her career and will help springboard her into more opportunities for self-development.   
Erica came to Fannie Mae through a very selective Analytical Associate program. The program recruits college graduates through a rigorous screening and interview process, focusing on applicants’ quantitative skills, their ability to quickly learn and grasp new techniques, and their potential of thinking big, being creative, and making a real difference in American’s housing finance system. After being accepted to this program, Erica went through a 3-month intensive training program that focuses on two main aspects: using programing languages effectively such as SAS, R, Python to process big data and solve real business problems; and understanding the housing finance system. This program not only prepared Erica for the work she subsequently does one my team, but also built a solid foundation of quantitative skill and resilience for her future Ph.D. study in Economics.
After graduating from the Associates training program, Erica joined my team, where her main responsibility is to validate the theorical and analytical soundness of econometric models used for Fannie Mae’s residential mortgage business. This job requires a deep understanding of economic and econometric theories, and the ability to conduct hands-on empirical analysis on big data sets. Advanced degrees in Economics or Statistics are typically required for such jobs; however, even without any graduate training, Erica has successfully completed several validation projects with limited supervision, providing valuable insights to each project she has worked on. Her her excellent quantitative and programing skills have made her an invaluable addition to my team.
For example, Erica independently validated a model that examines the behaviors of a special group of borrowers with relatively low incomes and smaller down payments. Fannie Mae designed a program to support these borrowers and evaluated the effectiveness of the program with an econometric model comparing the delinquency patterns of these borrowers against similar borrowers not in the program. Erica explored a variety of model specifications to control for the differences between the borrowers in vs. not in the program and confirmed the conclusion of the original model: the program does appear to improve the borrowers’ ability to stay current on their mortgages. Erica did not stop there; she went a step further to develop supplementary models that help to explore why this program is effective and is continuing to read and evaluate the academic literature around affordable housing. The insight gained from this project helped Fannie Mae to design more effective instruments to support sustainable homeownership. 
Erica also participated the review of a highly complex system of econometric models used to project the loan-level cash flows for all residential mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae. Erica played several roles in this review: verifying the code of the calculation engine; validating the results projected from the system; and benchmarking model projections against historical outcomes. She collaborated effectively with other team members to gain a thorough understanding about the model structure; identified many deficiencies of the proposed system; and worked with the owner of the system to fix the deficiencies. Her work was highly appreciated by the owner of the calculation engine, and multiple awards were given to her to recognize her contribution. Through these and other reviews, Erica has built a reputation centered around integrity, hard work, careful consideration.
Besides Erica’s regular work as a model validation associate, she engages in activities that influence Fannie Mae’s broader modeling and analytical community. From October 2018 to March 2019, she completed a six-month Emerging Leaders training program that aims to develop the next generation of leaders within Fannie Mae. She has actively demonstrated the leadership, communication, and problem-solving skills she had built in this program through the activities in which she has participated. For example, she led the issuance of Fannie Mae’s Model Risk Management Newsletter which was distributed to more than a hundred of analytical leads across the company. From selecting topics, to assembling material, to the final publication, Erica worked with people across the company to make sure the newsletter is accurate, effective, and intriguing while still covering model risk topics concerning Fannie Mae’s broader analytics community. This is just one of many activities that demonstrates her ability to lead others in planning and executing an activity while also leading others while also working on a goal that benefits a broad community. 
Behind her excellent quantitative skill and her ability to make a broad impact, it is her curiosity and her aptitude for grasping new skills that drive her success. She is constantly learning new things- taking online Machine Learning courses and college math courses; participating Fannie Mae’s Machine Learning Hackathon; studying residential mortgage option pricing in traditional and state-of-art literature; talking to established economists such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s Chief Economists; attending Risk America and other conferences; she is never tired of learning and bettering herself. Importantly, Erica also makes a point to help those around her -donating to charities, volunteering with Fannie Mae’s SERVE program and outside of work to help the homeless, volunteering with the employee resource groups within Fannie Mae to foster a culture of inclusion - she works hard for a very good reason, and I firmly believe her genuine care for a better world will take her very far. 
I am so glad to witness Erica’s competence and her rapid growth during her brief tenure so far at Fannie Mae. With her enthusiasm, her analytical competence, and her passion for service, there is nothing that can stop her from pursuing her dream of being a top economist. I strongly support her application for the NSF’s GRFP and believe that the fund will be the catalyst to the realization of her dream. 

Yongping Liang, Ph.D. 
Senior Director of Model Risk Management
Fannie Mae
